# Configuring Twitter Connector Operations

[[Prerequisites]](#Prerequisites) [[Initializing the connector]](#initializing-the-connector)

## Prerequisites

> NOTE: This connector uses application user authentication.

To use the Twitter API, you need the client ID, and either access token or refresh token that is generated by registering an application to https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/dashboard. Since the Twitter connector is using OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code Flow with PKCE you will need to get the access token with correct scope for the endpoint call. The scope mapping can be found at https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/authentication/guides/v2-authentication-mapping

To use the Twitter connector, add the <twitter.init> element in your configuration before carrying out any other Twitter operations.

## Initializing the Connector
Specify the init method as follows:

**init**
```xml
<twitter.init>
    <clientId>{$ctx:clientId}</clientId>
    <accessToken>{$ctx:accessToken}</accessToken>
    <refreshToken>{$ctx:refreshToken}</refreshToken>
    <apiUrl>{$ctx:apiUrl}</apiUrl>
    <timeout>{$ctx:timeout}</timeout>
</twitter.init>
```
**Properties**
* clientId: `Required` - `String` - The client ID of the Twitter App when OAuth 2.0 is enabled.
* accessToken: `Optional` - `String` - The access token of the OAuth 2.0 Twitter app. Please follow the https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/authentication/oauth-2-0/authorization-code to obtain the OAuth 2.0 access token. Not to be mistaken with the OAuth 1.0 access token. For the init call this field is `required if the refresh token is not provided`.
* refreshToken: `Optional` - `String` - The refresh token of the OAuth 2.0 Twitter app. Please follow the https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/authentication/oauth-2-0/authorization-code to obtain the OAuth 2.0 refresh token. Not to be mistaken with the OAuth 1.0 refresh token. For the init call this field is `required if the access token is not provided`.
* apiUrl: `Optional` - `String` - The Twitter API URL. Default value is `https://api.twitter.com`.
* timeout: `Optional` - `Integer` - The timeout in milliseconds for the Twitter API calls. Default value is `5000`.

Now that you have connected to Twitter, use the information in the following topics to perform various operations with the connector.


* To work with Twitter Direct Messages, See [Working with Direct Messages in Twitter](message.md)
* To work with Twitter Lists, See [Working with Lists in Twitter](list.md)
* To work with Twitter Tweets, See [Working with Tweets in Twitter](tweet.md)
* To work with Twitter Users, See [Working with Users in Twitter](user.md)
